.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH octopus 1x "January 20, 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
octopus \- a lightweight x11 window manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B octopus
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B octopus
is a window manager for the X Window System. It provides the following features:
.IP "\(bu" 4
Possibility to group a multitude of application windows in a single frame
(Tabbed windows)
.IP "\(bu" 4
Window stack. You can push/pop windows to/from this stack to move windows from
one virtual desktop to another.
.IP "\(bu" 4
OSD CLI (on-screen command line interface) with command completion
.IP "\(bu" 4
Built in scripting support. Every window manager action can be accessed by a
built in command.
.IP "\(bu" 4
The window manager can be expanded by your own user defined commands.
The commands are composed of already defined commands.
.IP "\(bu" 4
Help to discover windows by name
.IP "\(bu" 4
.I Focus-follows-mouse 
focus behaviour
.IP "\(bu" 4
.I Autoraise
of windows if they are entered by the mouse
.IP "\(bu" 4
Standard conform Xinerama support
.IP "\(bu" 4
Titlebars and shaped windows
.IP "\(bu" 4
Transparency of the titlebar
.IP "\(bu" 4
Full UTF support for the titlebars.
.IP "\(bu" 4
Xft font support (anti\-aliased fonts) through libcairo.
.IP "\(bu" 4
EWMH conform
.PP
As already mentioned above the window manager can be completely controlled
by builtin commands which can be entered by the OSD interface.
A summary of commands is included below.
.TP
.BI attach
Pop the most recent window from the stack an place it onto the current desktop.
.TP
.BI attach\-all
Pop all remaining windows from the stack an place them onto the current desktop.
.TP
.BI client\-next
Set input focus to the next client of the current desktop. This command
ignores the grouping of the clients by frames. If you want to focus the next
frame use the command \fBframe\-next\fR.
.TP
.BI delete\-client
Kill the actually focused client gracefully.
.TP
.BI detach
Push the actually focused client onto the top of the window stack
.TP
.BI dump\-state
Print the internal state of the window manager. This is mainly useful
for debugging only.
.TP
.BI exec\ \fIcommand\fR
Execute the given shell
.I command
in the background. This action is normally used to start a GUI application
like a web browser.
.TP
.BI exec\-term\ \fIcommand\fR
Execute the given shell
.I command
in a X terminal environment. This action is normally used to start applications
which need a terminal.
.TP
.BI fit\-to\-workarea
If the actually focused client is not completely placed on the workarea
this command helps you to reach this goal.
.TP
.BI frame\-attach
Pop the most recent window from the stack an place it into the actually
focused frame.
.TP
.BI frame\-client\-next
Focus next client inside the actually focused frame. If only on application
is inside this frame the operation does nothing relevant.
.TP
.BI frame\-next
Set input focus to the client in the next frame of the current desktop.
.TP
.BI fullscreen\-on
Set frame in fullscreen mode. This is useful for applications which either
don't support fullscreen or in a wrong way. Please remember: This an
.B octopus
specific way to this.
.TP
.BI fullscreen\-off
Switch of fullscreen again.
.TP
.BI grow\-east
Resize actual frame to the right side by a percentage value which can be redfined
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI grow\-north
Resize actual frame to the top by a percentage value which can be redfined
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI grow\-north\-east
Resize actual frame to the top and the right side by a percentage value which can be redfined
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI grow\-north\-west
Resize actual frame to the top and the left side by a percentage value which can be redfined
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI grow\-south
Resize actual frame to the bottom by a percentage value which can be redfined
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI grow\-south\-east
Resize actual frame to the bottom and the right side by a percentage value which can be redfined
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI grow\-south\-west
Resize actual frame to the bottom and the left side by a percentage value which can be redfined
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI grow\-west
Resize actual frame to the the left side by a percentage value which can be redfined
in the configuration file.
foo foo
.TP
.BI kill\-client
Kill the actually focused client the hard way toget ride of it.
.TP
.BI lower
Lower the frame inside the frame stack hirarchy.
.TP
.BI maximize\-full
Maximize the frame across the whole workarea.
.TP
.BI maximize\-horz
Maximize the frame across the whole horizontal workarea.
.TP
.BI maximize\-vert
Maximize the frame across the whole vertical workarea.
.TP
.BI move\-east
foo foo
.TP
.BI move\-north
foo foo
.TP
.BI move\-south
foo foo
.TP
.BI move\-west
foo foo
.TP
.BI quit
foo foo
.TP
.BI raise
foo foo
.TP
.BI rehash
foo foo
.TP
.BI restart
foo foo
.TP
.BI shrink\-east
foo foo
.TP
.BI shrink\-north
foo foo
.TP
.BI shrink\-north\-east
foo foo
.TP
.BI shrink\-north\-west
foo foo
.TP
.BI shrink\-south
foo foo
.TP
.BI shrink\-south\-east
foo foo
.TP
.BI shrink\-south\-west
foo foo
.TP
.BI shrink\-west
foo foo
.TP
.BI toggle\-sticky
foo foo
.TP
.BI unmaximize\-full
foo foo
.TP
.BI unmaximize\-horz
foo foo
.TP
.BI unmaximize\-vert
foo foo
.TP
.BI vdesk\-next
foo foo
.TP
.BI vdesk\-prev
foo foo
.TP
.BI vdesk\-goto 
foo foo
.TP
.BI xterm
Start a new X terminal emulator. As default the
.I xterm
application is used. But it can be overridden in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI "jump \fIpattern\fR"
Search a window with \fIpattern\fR in its title name. If a window is found
jump to its virtual desktop, raise it and set the input focus to this window.


.SH FILES
.PP
.nf
.I $HOME/.config/octopus/config.xml
.fi
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.IP DISPLAY
This variable is used to determine which X server to use.
.IP HOME
This variable is used to locate the user specific configuration files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR octopus_setbg (1x),
.BR octopus_xkeyd (1x).
.SH AUTHOR
octopus was written by Dr. Johann Pfefferl <pfefferl@gmx.net>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Dr. Johann Pfefferl <pfefferl@gmx.net>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
